---
layout: post
title: "5-Bullet Friday (2022-01-28)"
date: 2022-01-28
---

**Habit I’m trying to cultivate --**

**Regularly throw things away**. In the consumer world, people accumulate so
many things that occupy spaces and carry a lot of emotional toll without
providing a lot of joy. I have a weekly reminder that I do a stocktake of all
my stuff (physically and virtually like software and files on my computer),
then I throw or delete at least one thing away. The system worked pretty well,
and it helped de-cluster my world. It also creates space (not just physical but
also in the mind) to have more things to take in whenever needed.

**Things I'm thinking about trying --**

[**Syncthings**](https://syncthing.net/). I learned its existence from reading
[this blog post](https://tonsky.me/blog/syncthing/). It might be the perfect
alternative to dropbox and might serve my backup needs. The drawback is that I
would prefer a cloud solution rather than having my data backed up on one of my
physical hard drives only. I’m thinking of having some ec2 instance running in
AWS and back up everything in an EBS volume. I need to give it some more
thought.

**Privacy related phone settings I find useful --**

[**16 Practical Privacy Tips for Your
iPhone**](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/guides/iphone-privacy-tips/) It’s
a tradeoff between convenience and privacy. You don’t have to apply all the
settings recommended, but understanding where data can be leaked
unintentionally and different ways you can protect those are definitely
helpful. It also allows me to understand the approaches people have applied to
the data privacy field.

Some other related resources like the usage of burner emails like Maildrop,
Temp Mail, Mailsac can also be helpful. Additionally, if you prefer to use
safari and are tired of websites with overwhelming ads, I found Wipr.app super
helpful. It has both iPhone and Mac editions. Once you set it up, it just works
behind the scene without getting in the way.

**News Article worth sharing --**

[**2021 Was Earth’s Sixth-Hottest Year on Record, Temperature Reports
Say**](https://www.wsj.com/articles/2021-was-earths-sixth-hottest-year-on-record-temperature-reports-say-11642089601)
Climate issue seems to get more and more severe and visible. What should we do
with the ever-growing unsustainable demand for the earth's resources?

**Book I just finished reading --**

[**The Overstory**](http://www.richardpowers.net/the-overstory/) Typically I
don’t read (listen to) novels. However, since last year, I started to add them
to my reading list to increase the variety and broaden my horizon. The book
offers breathtaking and interleaved stories of different individuals and how
trees connect them together. It also gave me a deeper view of environmental
activism. I never look at trees the same way after reading this book.
