---
layout: post
title: "Books I Read in 2022"
date: 2023-01-16
---

It's been a while since I wrote the last post (a year ago). It's hard to get
into a new habit. The habit of writing is especially difficult, and
admittedly I have failed too many times in the past. Nevertheless, here is
again yet another effort to keep it going.

If there is one thing that I'm particular proud of in 2022, it is the number of
books I've read. Speaking of failed habit I'm trying to cultivate, reading
books is the one that I think I succeeded in 2022. Within a year, I have
finished reading 21 books. Something I have never be able to do before. Here is
the list.

[*Discipline Is Destiny: The Power of Self-Control*, by Ryan
Holiday](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60018575-discipline-is-destiny).
If I have favorite authors, Ryan Holiday would definitely be one of them. I
wouldn't say all his writings make perfect sense, but he is the only author I
would buy and read all his books. Discipline is definitely one of his best
books I've read so far. In the book, he talks about the 2nd cardinal virtue of
Stoics -- temperance. Something in a world of polarization, becomes even more
valuable.

[*The Great Influenza: The Story of the Deadliest Pandemic in History*, by John
M. Barry](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29036.The_Great_Influenza).
Three years of pandemic, I've read this book twice. First time I read it in
2021, I thought, "WOW, men never learn, history just repeats itself". Second
time there is more to it. Not just on history, but on a deeper understanding of
how progresses are made. I also appreciate the romantic stories of those
different scientists in the era. The one about Oswald Avery is very inspiring,
and the one about Paul Lewis is almost heart breaking.

[*Fight Club*, by Chuck
Palahniuk](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36236124-fight-club). I don't
usually read fictions. I remember the first half of Fight Club is a little hard
to read for me, but when I force myself to read through it, it gets better and
better.

[*How the World Really Works: A Scientist’s Guide to Our Past, Present and
Future*, by Vaclav
Smil](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56587388-how-the-world-really-works).
In the end, what really matters are the big scheme of things. You cannot look
at the world through single story, numbers and charts at macro scale tells you
what really matters.

[*The Psychology of Money*, by Morgan
Housel](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41881472-the-psychology-of-money).
This is not really a financial book, it's telling you how you should live your
life.

[*Put Your Ass Where Your Heart Wants to Be*, by Steven
Pressfield](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61435726-put-your-ass-where-your-heart-wants-to-be).
For those who would like to achieve something, the title already told you --
put your ass where your heart wants to be. It's about showing up, do the work,
keep doing it, and some more. Only that, can you find meaning, be content, and
have a shot of achieve something.

[*The Wisdom of Insecurity: A Message for an Age of Anxiety*, by Alan W.
Watts](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551520.The_Wisdom_of_Insecurity).
The book begins

> I have always been fascinated by the law of reversed effort. Sometimes I call
> it the "backwards law". When you try to say on the surface of the water, you
> sink; but when you try to sink, you float. When you hold your breath, you
> lose it -- which immediately calls to mind an ancient and much neglected
> saying, "Whosoever would save his soul shall lose it".

Oh my god! This is the best essay that I have ever read. The topic is almost
impossible, but Alan Watts nailed everything through his beautiful writing. All
sentences are logically sound and elegant. Reading the book is like feeding the
soul. Profound! This will be the book I would re-read every year.

[*Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World*, by Cal
Newport](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25744928-deep-work). I only
started to realize later in life that I cannot multi-task, and most people are
not good at that at all. This book tells you everything you need to know to
produce work that really matters and be productive about it.

[*Chaos Monkeys: Obscene Fortune and Random Failure in Silicon Valley*, by
Antonio García
Martínez](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40941455-chaos-monkeys). As
someone who have some experience in the tech and ad-tech space, most of the
things are not surprising. The writing is hilarious. One other thing that you
learn again and again is that big projects and large initiatives in large
companies seldom succeed, like Facebook's open graph and Google's Google+. I
also have my own fair share of watching those failures that happened and is
happening that are probably not appropriate to share with the public (yet).

[*Courage Is Calling: Fortune Favors the Brave*, by Ryan
Holiday](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58145670-courage-is-calling).
Another Ryan Holiday's book I just have to read. Courage is the first cardinal
virtue of Stoic.

[*The Inevitable: Understanding the 12 Technological Forces That Will Shape Our
Future*, by Kevin
Kelly](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27209431-the-inevitable).
Technologies never fail to surprise people. You can still see trends and make
reasonable predictions, the direction of the force is clear.

[*Brave New World*, by Aldous
Huxley](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5129.Brave_New_World). One of the
classics that I just have to read some day. Glad it got checked in 2022.

[*Trust Me, I'm Lying: Confessions of a Media Manipulator*, Ryan
Holiday](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13542853-trust-me-i-m-lying). One
of Ryan Holiday's early book I didn't get a chance to read. Most of the stories
I am already kind of aware. Media and social network a like and how they
operates. The book focuses on blogs, the phenomenon is even more extreme in the
current twitter and short video era.

[*Stillness Is the Key*, Ryan
Holiday](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43582733-stillness-is-the-key). In
a world full of distractions, short term fashion and trends come and go,
companies chasing the unrealistic and shiny new thing, we have to stay focus,
remain calm, keep our aim on the goal.

[*21 Lessons for the 21st Century*, by Yuval Noah
Harari](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38820046-21-lessons-for-the-21st-century).
Re-reading it again in 2022, everything still applies. You want to understand
what is happening in the world? This is the book.

[*Capitalism without Capital: The Rise of the Intangible Economy*, by Jonathan
Haskel and Stian
Westlake](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35549408-capitalism-without-capital).
How the economy works.

[*Yes to Life: In Spite of Everything*, by Viktor E.
Frankl](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48711165-yes-to-life). What life is
about? Psychiatrist, and Holocaust survivor Viktor Frankl certainly have great
insights. The book not only uses his own experience, but also has scientific
evidence on life.

[*The Great Gatsby*, by F. Scott
Fitzgerald](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4671.The_Great_Gatsby).
Beautiful story!

[*The Infinite Game*, by Simon
Sinek](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38390751-the-infinite-game).
Inspirational yet easy to understand and practical.

[*A Field Guide to Lucid Dreaming: Mastering the Art of Oneironautics*, by
Dylan
Tuccillo](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17472023-a-field-guide-to-lucid-dreaming).
The book started with interesting stories and facts. Gets a little dull for me
and I struggle to finish it.

[*The Overstory*, by Richard
Powers](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40180098-the-overstory). Pulitzer
Prize winner. Nature and human along with activism.
